
“Support Vector Machine” (SVM) is a supervised machine learning algorithm which can be used for both classification or regression challenges

In this algorithm, we plot each data item as a point in n-dimensional space (where n is number of features you have) with the value of each feature being the value of a particular coordinate.Then, we perform classification by finding the hyper-plane that differentiate the two classes very well  

SVM algorithms use a set of mathematical functions that are defined as the kernel. The function of kernel is to take data as input and transform it into the required form. Different SVM algorithms use different types of kernel functions. These functions can be different types. For example linear, nonlinear, polynomial, radial basis function (RBF), and sigmoid.The most used type of kernel function is RBF. Because it has localized and finite response along the entire x-axis.The kernel functions return the inner product between two points in a suitable feature space. Thus by defining a notion of similarity, with little computational cost even in very high-dimensional spaces.

The Regularization parameter (often termed as C parameter in python’s sklearn library) tells the SVM optimization how much you want to avoid misclassifying each training example.For large values of C, the optimization will choose a smaller-margin hyperplane if that hyperplane does a better job of getting all the training points classified correctly. Conversely, a very small value of C will cause the optimizer to look for a larger-margin separating hyperplane, even if that hyperplane misclassifies more points.

The gamma parameter defines how far the influence of a single training example reaches, with low values meaning ‘far’ and high values meaning ‘close’. In other words, with low gamma, points far away from plausible seperation line are considered in calculation for the seperation line. Where as high gamma means the points close to plausible line are considered in calculation.

A margin is a separation of line to the closest class points.A good margin is one where this separation is larger for both the classes. A good margin allows the points to be in their respective classes without crossing to other class.
